Exam Technical Instructions
Root privileges can be obtained by running 'sudo −i'.
You must NOT reboot the base node (hostname node-1). Rebooting the base node will NOT restart your exam environment.
Do not stop or tamper with the certerminal process as this will END YOUR EXAM SESSION.
Do not block incoming ports 8080/tcp, 4505/tcp and 4506/tcp. This includes firewall rules that are found within the distribution's default firewall configuration files as well as interactive firewall commands.
Use Ctrl+Alt+W instead of Ctrl+W.
5.1 Ctrl+W is a keyboard shortcut that will close the current tab in Google Chrome.
The Terminal (Terminal Emulator Application) is a Linux Terminal; to copy & paste within the Linux Terminal you need to use LINUX shortcuts:
Copy  = Ctrl+SHIFT+C (inside the terminal)
Paste = Ctrl+SHIFT+V (inside the terminal)
OR Use the Right Click Context Menu and select Copy or Paste
For security reasons, the INSERT  key is prohibited within the Remote Desktop. 
Candidates can Type i to switch into insert mode so that you can start editing the file. 
Once you're done, press the escape key Esc to get out of insert mode and back to command mode.
Installation of services and applications included in this exam may require modification of system security policies to successfully complete.
CKA & CKAD Environment
Each task on this exam must be completed on a designated cluster/configuration context.
An infobox at the start of each task provides you with the cluster name/context information. 
Nodes making up each cluster can be reached via ssh, using a command such as the following: ssh <nodename>
NOTE: You must return to the base node (hostname node-1) after completing each task.
Nested-ssh is not supported.
You can assume elevated privileges on any node by issuing the following command: sudo -i
You can also use sudo to execute commands with elevated privileges at any time
You can use kubectl and the appropriate context to work on any cluster from the base node. When connected to a cluster member via ssh, you will only be able to work on that particular cluster via kubectl.
For your convenience, all environments, in other words, the base system and the cluster nodes, have the following additional command-line tools pre-installed and pre-configured:
kubectl with kalias and Bash autocompletion
jq for YAML/JSON processing
tmux for terminal multiplexing
curl and wget for testing web services
man and man pages for further documentation
Further instructions for connecting to cluster nodes will be provided in the appropriate tasks
Where no explicit namespace is specified, the default namespace should be acted upon.
If you need to destroy/recreate a resource to perform a certain task, it is your responsibility to back up the resource definition appropriately prior to destroying the resource.
The CKA & CKAD environments are currently running etcd v3.5.
The CKA environment is currently running Kubernetes v1.29.
The CKAD environment is  currently running Kubernetes v1.29.
The CKA, CKS and CKAD exam environment will be aligned with the most recent K8s minor version within approximately 4 to 8 weeks of the K8s release date.











